So now let's talk about improving time and efficiency.
And first, we're going to start with rotation's.
So a rotation is when you leave the culture center, you're facing like the red face and look at a different
center.
You don't do any moves, but you flip the cube to look at a different side.
One important part of having a good, solid time is how you're able to perform moves with your hands.
And the default position, both your hands will be on the cube and milliseconds away from performing
a turn.
However, if you do a rotation, your fingers leave the cube and have to reposition themselves to do
moves.
This takes a lot of time and aren't that useful, considering there are better ways to look around the
cube.
The ideal solve involves zero rotations, which means you're facing the same colored center throughout
the whole solve.
Obviously, doing Whitecross, it would be really hard to do Seaforth while facing yellow or white.
So red, blue, orange or green are the best sites to look at.
This is the ideal case, and it's pretty unrealistic to never do any rotations during assault.
I myself tend to do two to five rotations, not to look around, but to position myself in a way that
I can do a certain move easily, like incertain F2 Alpari using only Ahran.
You begin off and rotate the cube pointlessly several times during a solve like 10 times.
And this is really inefficient and cause a lot of seconds to be added instead of rotating the cube slightly
took the cube up.
So you can see the side you want to look at.
So if I'm looking at the green side and I want to see what the back side looks like or the blue side,
then while I'm holding the cube like this during myself, I can simply move a little bit up and see
the blue side.
And that completely eliminates the point of the rotation.
So tilting is so much better because you don't have to move your hands at all and just spend a tiny
bit of time looking instead of a lot of time fully repositioning your hands.
So here are some examples of why I wrote it and when not to rotate, the first one is rotation's during
algorithms.
Because some algorithms have rotations built into them.
There's not really much you can do here.
You just rotate the cube.
There's no good way to eliminate these types of rotations because they help you perform this easier.
If you learn algorithm with the rotations as rotate the cube as a few rotations per solve is OK.
So, for example, this is a pillowcase.
We have headlights here and a bar back here.
And the algorithm for this case actually has a rotation in it, and there's really no better way to
do it.
So I'll just do the algorithm.
You can see that there's a rotation in it.
So all I did was I did something on this side and then I rotated to the side and I solved the algorithm
just so that I could use Ranu moves and make it much easier for my hands.
The next one is rotation's during F two L.
So since you have to look all around the cube for F2 L rotating the cube to find a piece and easily
insert, it is another time when it's OK to rotate.
If there's a corner as stuck in the back, that cannot be solved using r u r l moves, then rotation
to the left or right or common so that the backside becomes the right side, meaning the piece can easily
be seen and solved.
So for example, if I have a F tool case like this, I have my red and blue here.
They need to be paired up this way and need to go into this lot.
However, the state of mind is the orange side, and there is no way to insert this.
I cannot move this down.
The only way is to flip to a side and then insert it.
So from this position, what I always do and basically the only thing you can do is flip to the side
just so that you can insert the pair.
And you go from here.
So the next reason is last layer.
And lastly, rotations are basically forbidden, except during algorithm's.
So if you have the bottom two layer solid and rotating, just to see three stickers in the back of the
cube is not worth it.
If you have to see that that piece is during last layer, just do what we did earlier, which is just
slightly tilt the cube up.
Now, I can see I have three green right here, and now I know exactly which algorithm to do.
And I'll be able to solve the cube because I've identified the case.
So another way to do it is to just move the you face.
So if I'm in this position and I want to know what's back here, if I just do a new prime, then now
I can see these three stickers on the side.
And I also know what case I have.
So the final one of where not to rotate is the cross.
Just don't rotate the queue during the cross.
There's no prerent algorithms, so there's no exceptions to the rule.
The cross should always be solved using a new Taner 10 move or less algorithm that you create during
inspection.
So if you forget where a piece is or need to see it edge, just tilt the cube or rotate the you face,
then just form the cross without rotating, which means using all kind of move like Newt like you are.
B, L or D.